1.What Is Ansible?

Ansible is a configuration management system. It is used to set up and manage infrastructure and applications. It allows users to deploy and update applications using SSH, without needing to install an agent on a remote system.

2.What’s the use of Ansible?
Ansible is used for managing IT infrastructure and deploy software apps to remote nodes.For example, Ansible allows you to deploy as an application to many nodes with one single command. However, for that, there is a need for some programming knowledge to understand the ansible scripts.

3.Explain a few of the basic terminologies or concepts in Ansible.

Controller Machine: The Controller machine is responsible for provisioning the servers that are being managed. It is the machine where Ansible is installed.

Inventory: An inventory is an initialization file that has details about the different servers you are managing.
----------

Inventories: These are a list of nodes containing their respective IP addresses, servers, databases, etc. which needs to be managed.
------------
 

Playbook: It is a code file written in the YAML format. A playbook basically contains the tasks that need to be executed or automated.
---------

Task: Each task represents a single procedure that needs to be executed, e.g. Install a library.
-----

Module: A module is a set of tasks that can be executed. Ansible has 100s of built-in modules, but you can also create custom ones using python language.


Role: An Ansible role is a pre-defined way for organizing playbooks and other files in order to facilitate sharing and reusing portions of provisioning.


Play: A task executed from start to finish or the execution of a playbook is called a play.
-----

Facts: Facts are global variables that store details about the system, like network interfaces or operating system.
------

Handlers: Are used to trigger the status of a service, such as restarting or stopping a service.
---------

What is Modules?
Modules: The modules are used to manage system resources, packages, libraries, files, etc. Ansible modules can be used to automate a wide range of tasks. Ansible provides around 450 modules that automate nearly every part of your environment.


4.What is the difference between a variable name and an environment variable?

                  Variable name                              	                          Environment variable
                 ----------------                                                        -----------------------
1.You need to add strings to create variable names                   1.You need existing variables to access environment variables.
2.You can easily create multiple variable names by adding strings    2.To create environment variables we must refer advanced Ansible playbook
3.We use the ipv4 address for variable names                         3.We use {{ ansible_env.SOME_VARIABLE }} for remote environment variables.

5.What is Ansible Galaxy? 
Galaxy is a website that lets Ansible users share their roles and modules. The Ansible Galaxy command line tool comes packed with Ansible, and it can be used to install roles from Galaxy or directly from a Source Control Management system such as Git. It can also be used to build new roles, remove existing ones and perform tasks on the Galaxy website.

You can use the below command to download roles from the Galaxy website:

$ansible-galaxy install username.role_name

6. What are Ad-hoc commands? Give an example.
Ad-hoc commands are simple one-line commands used to perform a certain task. You can think of Adhoc commands as an alternative to writing playbooks. An example of an Adhoc command is as follows:

ansible host -m netscaler -a "nsc_host=nsc.example.com user=apiuser password=apipass"

7.what is ansible roles.

But what are Ansible roles exactly? They're groupings of variables, tasks, handlers and other components within a standard file structure. These roles provide a way to break out an Ansible playbook into multiple independent files. In addition to promoting reuse, roles offer an easy way to share Ansible content among multiple users.

                               (or)

Roles are ways of automatically loading certain vars_files, tasks, and handlers based on a known file structure. Grouping content by roles also allows easy sharing of roles with other users

8.How does Ansible work?
Ansible, unlike other configuration management tools, is categorized into two types of servers – Controlling machines and Nodes. Controlling machine is where Ansible is installed and nodes are the ones that are managed by the controlling machines through SSH. There is an inventory file in the controlling machine that holds the location of the node systems. Ansible deploys modules on the node systems by running the playbook on the controlling machine. Ansible is agentless, that means there is no need to have a third party tool to make a connection between one node and the other.





